everyone tender toe here I wanted to do
a separate video
spired bug net I just thought this thing
was very well designed it was an
ingenious little device that hammock
forms member Frankie fr o NK ey what he
came up with you can also search him on
YouTube I believe his name there is FL
surfer with some digits after it this is
just a great simple solution to bug
protection with your hammock
you can search his original video and
thread on this but I just figured I'd
give it a go of describing what I did
you end up worded some no seeum netting
this is from DIY gear supply what you do
to come up with the dimensions you need
is you measure your ridgeline lengths
mine here is 114 inches you multiply
that by 2 that is 228 inches franck e
recommends adding 6 inches to that
number now I actually added 10 inches
that was recommended by sip on hammock
forums and I like the extra a little bit
of wiggle room wiggle room that it
provides you so you do 114 times 2 is
228 plus 10 is 238 you now have that
dimension you fold it in half so now you
end up with half of what you originally
had there you sew your top seam now now
what you need to do is you need to get
this dimension right down here so you
have this top dimension now what you
need to do is you're gonna need to cut
these edges here in order to come up
with this dimension here I believe it is
you multiply this number by 0.2 to 0 and
that's how you end up with this
dimension down here you measure in 20%
and you measure in 20% on this side and
that's where you end up cutting here so
you have 20% in 20% in from you know
from a direct rectangle 20% in this way
20% in this way and that's where you get
this angle you just kind of match from
here to here I use the tape measure and
just make that cut on both sides now
what you need to do is you need to sew
these closed
what you need to do though is if you
need to leave a small portion open
unsewn here so you can fit your
suspension in here and so you can fit
your suspension in here what you need to
do is you need to now so from here to
here once again leave a small opening
there and so from here to here then all
you need to do is sew a channel in the
bottom and thread some shock cord
through it and you have
your bug net this project took me maybe
30 or 45 minutes like I said it was one
of the simplest things I've ever sewn
bug netting is very easy to sell and the
fact that the dimensions on this aren't
that really strict you know you can have
this angle doesn't have to be perfect
you know it can be a little steeper a
little more shallow and it's not really
going to impact things the edges don't
need to be straight you know in my
opinion granted it's a cosmetic thing
but you wouldn't necessarily be able to
tell the difference if this was you know
straight or not because once you end up
sewing it you end up flipping everything
inside out and doesn't really get
impacted that much in my opinion
at any rate I wanted to show my little
addition that I made here at the here at
the the ridge line the the area that I
said was left open Franchi just left
these open in his video he just left
them unsewn and you can thread your
suspension through it I actually sewed
some omni tape here on both sides and
basically what this does is it just kind
of keeps everything in place so you can
you know you can kind of use this and on
stick it I guess and you can use this
like a big snake skin and kind of unfurl
it all the way off and just kind of have
it hanging over over off to one side and
then when you want it back again you
just take it place it and use the Omni
tape to since you're closed to get in at
the bottom here like I said it's just a
big glorified stuff sack so you just
kind of it's got a hole at the bottom
here that you can adjust the cinch by
cinching that cord lock down or leaving
it further open you just kind of hop in
like a big stuff sack and then cinch it
up behind you and it just hangs like so
you can see there's enough room down
there for an under quilt I've put on my
my winter incubator on on this hammock
and it had enough clearance I just I
like the way it hangs in my opinion more
than a the designs that are used by the
big-name manufacturers out there in my
opinion with these sort of zipper on the
side reason why I like this design
better than that is because you can see
how these shockcord on the bottom kind
of cinches things up and makes it more
of a you know just imagine if this were
hanging down it would be hanging down to
here if it were did not have that shock
cord on it basically just gives you a
little extra clearance I feel in my
opinion on the bottom so you're not
dragging your bug net and
I like that shot Corden bottom portion
because not only does it cinch up behind
you and keep everything cinched up so
the books can't get in but it also takes
up some of the slack of the bug netting
itself and you know prevents that from
dragging in the mud so that's my my
quick little review on this once again
really super simple project in my
opinion this was simpler than any stuff
sack I've ever sewn that's just my
opinion on it stuff this if you're
looking for a good first DIY project
this would be the one in my opinion this
no seam netting is just so simple to sew
it's just not moving around as much as a
rip stop or a SIL nylon or anything like
that so it's my quick review thanks for
watching guys and gals